The Project Gutenberg EBook of Sense and Sensibility, by Jane Austen

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: Sense and Sensibility

Author: Jane Austen

Commentator: Austin Dobson

Illustrator: Hugh Thomson

Release Date: June 15, 2007 [EBook #21839]
[Last updated: July 12, 2013]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SENSE AND SENSIBILITY ***




Produced by Fritz Ohrenschall and Sankar Viswanathan (This
book was produced from scanned images of public domain
material from the Google Print project.)









                         Transcriber's Note:

The Table of Contents is not part of the original book. The illustration
on page 290 is missing from the book. The Introduction ends abruptly.
Seems incomplete.



CHAPTER I


The family of Dashwood had long been settled in Sussex. Their estate
was large, and their residence was at Norland Park, in the centre of
their property, where, for many generations, they had lived in so
respectable a manner as to engage the general good opinion of their
surrounding acquaintance. The late owner of this estate was a single
man, who lived to a very advanced age, and who for many years of his
life, had a constant companion and housekeeper in his sister. But her
death, which happened ten years before his own, produced a great
alteration in his home; for to supply her loss, he invited and
received into his house the family of his nephew Mr. Henry Dashwood,
the legal inheritor of the Norland estate, and the person to whom he
intended to bequeath it. In the society of his nephew and niece, and
their children, the old Gentleman's days were comfortably spent. His
attachment to them all increased. The constant attention of Mr. and
Mrs. Henry Dashwood to his wishes, which proceeded not merely from
interest, but from goodness of heart, gave him every degree of solid
comfort which his age could receive; and the cheerfulness of the
children added a relish to his existence.

By a former marriage, Mr. Henry Dashwood had one son: by his present
lady, three daughters. The son, a steady respectable young man, was
amply provided for by the fortune of his mother, which had been large,
and half of which devolved on him on his coming of age. By his own
marriage, likewise, which happened soon afterwards, he added to his
wealth. To him therefore the succession to the Norland estate was not
so really important as to his sisters; for their fortune, independent
of what might arise to them from their father's inheriting that
property, could be but small. Their mother had nothing, and their
father only seven thousand pounds in his own disposal; for the
remaining moiety of his first wife's fortune was also secured to her
child, and he had only a life-interest in it.
